On Sunday, February the 26th,
I traveled
to Port-au-Prince for the branch visit
and was warmly welcomed
by many of the Bethel family of 54 members.
The branch office
supervises the preaching work
for more than 20,000 publishers.
Although Haiti has faced economic challenges
and suffered recent natural disasters,
our brothers are positive
and focus their attention on helping
others to identify our Scriptural hope.
The Haitian people show
a keen interest in the Word of God.
Our brothers average
more than 42,000 Bible studies each month,
and Haiti enjoyed a Memorial attendance
of more than 86,000 in 2016.
This was four times more than the number
of publishers in the branch territory.
The brothers love to use
the videos in the ministry.
This is made possible
by the Haiti audio/video team
translating the videos
into their native language.
While many in Haiti speak French,
the common language
of the people in general is Haitian Creole.
Creole is said to be
an expressive language
that combines French words
with the grammar
of West African languages.
The number of publishers in Haiti
has quadrupled since the start
of Creole translation back in 1987.
The complete New World Translation Bible
was released in Creole in 2015.
We met with the translation team
to commend them for the good work they do.
We reminded them of the many positive results
in the field ministry that have taken place
since translating the Bible
and our literature into Creole.
As an example, Mirlène is a vendor
of fruits and vegetables who was asked
if she would supply
some of her produce to Bethel.
Although she was very impressed
the first time
she arrived at the Bethel property,
she said she found
the large steel gate to be intimidating.
So she prayed to God to protect her
while in the yard at Bethel.
The brothers dealt kindly
with her when she made
her deliveries on Monday each week.
One of the brothers from the kitchen
told her that maybe someday
she too would become
one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
She accepted an invitation to the Memorial,
and despite some personal challenges,
such as not being able to read well,
she began to attend
some congregation meetings.
Mirlène could see the difference
between Jehovah’s loving people
and those in her church.
A study was started with her,
and she progressed
to the point of baptism in 2009.
Since then, she has worked diligently
to teach the truth
to her children with good results.
Her oldest son graduated
from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
and serves as an elder
and temporary special pioneer.
Recently, another of her sons
was appointed a ministerial servant,
and the four other children
are unbaptized publishers.
Having our literature in Creole
and with the help of her children,
she has improved her reading.
She now benefits
from reading the Bible in Creole,
the language of her heart.
Good results are beginning to be seen
in the field of American Sign Language,
which is now used in Haiti.
There are now 87 deaf publishers
in 4 ASL congregations and 8 groups.
The congregation here
is singing praises to Jehovah.
Even our little sister
is learning to do this.
This brother showed us
the effort he puts forth
to prepare for a Bible reading.
A special program for Haiti was held
on Saturday morning
at the open-air Assembly Hall
on the branch property.
A total of 1,405 were in attendance.
We were very encouraged to see
the group of our brothers
who benefited from the program
in American Sign Language.
The program was recorded and presented
at Kingdom Halls throughout the country
later that same day and also on Sunday
to a combined audience of 34,812.
We felt a little sad to leave
the brothers on Sunday morning
for a drive of about six hours or so
to the Dominican Republic
for the second branch visit.
En route, we traveled
through some semiarid areas
to the border between the two countries.
The terrain varied greatly
as we drove through small mountains,
rich agricultural regions,
and along the Caribbean Sea.
We took the opportunity
to witness to some individuals at the border
and at various checkpoints,
leaving literature along the way.
Upon entering the city of Santo Domingo,
we quickly identified
the large JW.ORG sign at the branch office.
We were enthusiastically greeted
by many of the 73 Bethel family members.
Although the preaching work
is done primarily in Spanish,
our brothers are expanding their ministry
to reach the language of the hearts
of many peoples and cultures.
There are now 5 Haitian Creole
circuits in the branch territory,
26 American Sign Language congregations,
and other congregations or groups
in Russian, Chinese, Italian and French.
We joined a group of brothers
and sisters in the field ministry
in the Chinatown district of Santo Domingo.
Our group gave a witness to both Spanish-
and Chinese-speaking people on the streets
—most of whom
respectfully listened to our message.
A Bethel brother, Evan,
told us of the challenge
he faced when learning the truth.
I was finishing medical school
while serving in the Dominican army.
By then I had been serving for six years.
At my aunt’s home,
I found the Revelation book.
It made such an impact on me,
that I stole it and read it all on my own.
There’s a vision in chapter 6 of Revelation,
where the sixth seal is opened
and the skies darken
and the army commanders hide in caves.
That vision impressed me so much
that I decided to serve Jehovah.
That meant that I
would have to leave the army
because Witnesses are neutral.
I quickly decided to talk
to my immediate commander
to ask him
to please discharge me from the army.
However, he rejected my request and said:
“No, you have served
in the army for six years.
You have to stay in the army.”
I was not concerned
because I could still appeal
to the colonel in charge of personnel.
However, my request
for resignation was rejected again.
I left and went into the hallway.
I prayed to Jehovah:
“I want to serve you.
“What should I do?
Help me find a way out of this!”
When I opened my eyes,
another army officer approached
and greeted me using my name.
I still don’t know who he was.
He asked me,
“What do you need?”
I explained that I wanted to resign
in order to become a Jehovah’s Witness.
He said: “Don’t worry,
give me your papers.
I’m the colonel’s assistant.”
Within 20 minutes, my discharge papers
were ready and approved.
In a short period of time,
I became a publisher
and I got baptized
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
At this time,
I have been serving happily in Bethel
for over 11 years with my wife, Jael.
Without a doubt, Jehovah helps
those who put their complete trust in him.
The branch is blessed
to have as part of their Bethel family
some who had been longtime missionaries.
I enjoyed a very pleasant visit
with five of the senior members of this group
—three of whom are 98 years of age.
Brother William Dingman
is of the first class of Gilead.
His wife, Estelle, attended the 12th class.
Thelma Critz is also of the 12th class.
Barbara Parker is of the 42nd class,
and Helen Ferrari
attended the 2nd class of Gilead.
To illustrate the length
of their full-time service
is the fact that Sister Ferrari
is among those
who stood up to identify themselves
as part of the great multitude
at the 1935 convention in Washington, D.C.
The average age of this group is 94.
Even more impressive
is that their average years
of full-time service is 73.
These faithful ones set a fine example
continuing to be active in the ministry
—taking into account
their ages and health limitations.
Such loyal servants of Jehovah are considered
spiritual treasures wherever they may serve.
I still have one study so far,
although my eyesight doesn’t allow
me to do too much.
But I try.
My legs aren’t so good for walking,
so they wheel me around.
In all of my life, I would consider
the life that I have spent as a missionary
and in Dominican Republic as well
—it’s a wonderful life.
I couldn’t have chosen
a better companion
and also a better life
than to be preaching
the message of the good news of the Kingdom.
The Dominican Republic Bethel family
considers it a privilege
to have a share in providing
care for such faithful ones.
On Sunday, March the 12th,
a special program was held
at the open-air Assembly Hall
adjacent to the branch office.
A total of 3,050 benefited
from the spiritual program
and Christian association.
The visits to the Dominican Republic
and Haiti branches
proved to be
an encouragement and a spiritual blessing
to all who participated in them.